Temporary security credentials are the trio of an **access key ID**, a **secret access key**, and a **[[IAM session token|session token]]**.

You can use **temporary security credentials** to make programmatic requests for AWS resources using the [[AWS CLI]] or [[AWS API]]. Such credentials are generated by [[AWS STS]].

> [!tip]
> With temporary security credentials, you can provide access to your AWS resources to users without having to define an AWS identity for them or embed long-term credentials with an application.

Temporary security credentials are required when [[IAM role assume|assuming an IAM role]], and they work almost identically to the long-term access key credentials that your IAM users can use, with the following differences: 

 - **They are short-lived**. Temporary security credentials can be configured to last from a few minutes to several hours. After the credentials expire, AWS no longer recognizes them or allows any kind of access from API requests made with them. 
 - **They are renewable**. Temporary security credentials are not stored with the user but are generated dynamically and provided to the user when requested. When (or even before) the temporary security credentials expire, the user can request new credentials as long as the user requesting them still has permissions to do so.


When you make a call using temporary security credentials, the call must include a [[IAM session token|session token]], which is returned along with those temporary credentials. AWS uses the **session token** to validate the temporary security credentials.

## Use cases

- Roles for [[IAM Federated user|federated users]].
- Cross account access - one AWS account might access another through a role with temp credentials.
- Roles for [[EC2]] instance use temp credentials.