## Invoke URL

Your API is called by a URL. This URL name is **invoke URL** and it is attached to a *stage*. It has a structure like this;

`https://{restAPI_id}.execute-API.{region}.amazon.com/{stage}/{resource}`

Where:

- `{restAPI_id}` - a unique id generated by AWS.
- `{region}` - AWS Region where API is deployed.
- `{stage}` - deployment [[AWS API Gateway stage|stage]].
- `{resource}` - resource/resource path.

All the APIs generated by AWS API Gateway will follow the same pattern as the invoke URL shown above: URL will always have API id, region, followed by a stage and then the resource and resource path.

APIs created with API Gateway follow a common URL pattern, but **you can customize** the domain name using **base path mapping**.

## Resource

After creation you'll add resources. Resources form a hierarchy and are relative to the root resource, which is relative to the base URL. You can specify **path parameters** using *curly brackets*. When adding a resource, you have the option to create a **proxy resource** as well. If you choose this option, it will automatically create a special HTTP method called ***ANY***. A proxy resource is expressed by a special resource path parameter of `{proxy+}`, often referred to as a **greedy path parameter**. The plus sign (+) indicates child resources appended to it. In addition to the HTTP proxy, there is also a [[AWS Lambda]] proxy option.

## Resource method

Once you’ve created the resource, you can associate methods with your resources. When you select **Create Method** from the Actions menu, you will be prompted to choose an HTTP verb such as `GET`, `POST`, or `OPTIONS`. After this is done, you will be prompted to complete the other set-up items, including timeout and integration type. Depending on the integration type you select, you will have to provide different details.

## Endpoint type

When you create an API in [[AWS API Gateway]], you have the option to choose between different endpoint types: 

1. **Public**: Edge-Optimized or Regional
2. **Private**. 

**Edge-Optimized** endpoints are specifically designed to reduce latency for globally distributed clients by using the [[AWS CloudFront]]. You need to explicitly select the Edge-Optimized option when creating or configuring your API Gateway endpoint to enable this feature. Designed to minimize latency for clients distributed globally.

**Regional endpoints**: Designed for clients within a specific AWS region. Directly serves API requests from the specified AWS region *without* using CloudFront.

**Private endpoints**: Designed for secure, private access within your [[AWS VPC]]. Accessible only from within your VPC using VPC endpoints, ensuring that the API is not exposed to the public internet.

## Stage

When you deploy your API, you're creating a [[AWS API Gateway stage|stage]]. Each new deployment is added to an existing stage, or creates a new one. This is a way to implement versioning.